0	" In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock , but it was found to be a dead whale , which some Asiatics had killed , and were then towing ashore .
2	Now then , my young man , Ishmael ' s thy name , didn ' t ye say ?
1	All at once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed , while the boat ' s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked .
0	Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself .
1	"' Hind de hatchway , in ferry - boat , goin ' ober de Roanoke ."
2	" By art is created that great Leviathan , called a Commonwealth or State --( in Latin , Civitas ) which is but an artificial man ."
2	But , as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quite another ; and still a man , who , if indeed peculiar , it only results again from another phase of the Quaker , modified by individual circumstances .
1	Our sail was now set , and , with the still rising wind , we rushed along ; the boat going with such madness through the water , that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the row - locks .
2	" Well , Captain Bildad ," interrupted Peleg , " what d ' ye say , what lay shall we give this young man ?"
1	There we sat up to our knees in the sea , the water covering every rib and plank , so that to our downward gazing eyes the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the ocean .
1	He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of his part of the boat , as an old stage - driver is about the snugness of his box .
0	" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ."
1	Meanwhile the boat was still booming through the mist , the waves curling and hissing around us like the erected crests of enraged serpents .
1	Delightful inducements to embark , fine chance for promotion , it seems -- aye , a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet .
1	But a sudden , terrific , downward jerking of the boat , quickly brought his knife to the line .
0	Be that how it may , there stands the vast arched bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive beneath it .
2	" What ' s the matter with you , young man ?"
0	-- THOMAS JEFFERSON ' S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778 .
2	That man next him looks a few shades lighter ; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him .
0	" No , Sir , ' tis a Right Whale ," answered Tom ; " I saw his sprout ; he threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at .
1	The stout sail - boat that had accompanied us began ranging alongside .
0	And that harpoon -- so like a corkscrew now -- was flung in Javan seas , and run away with by a whale , years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco .
2	For a pious man , especially for a Quaker , he was certainly rather hard - hearted , to say the least .
1	" And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster ' s mouth , be it beast , boat , or stone , down it goes all incontinently that foul great swallow of his , and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his paunch ."
2	The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous , considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills , and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven .
2	Now , Queequeg is my fellow man .
1	This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats , though technically called the captain ' s , on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter .
1	The first boat we read of , floated on an ocean , that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow .
0	They grow exceeding fat , insomuch that an incredible quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale ."
1	Therefore he had not solicited a boat ' s crew from them , nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head .
0	" It is impossible to meet a whale - ship on the ocean without being struck by her near appearance .
2	Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah , though the man now stands before him ; but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice , than he darts a scrutinizing glance .
2	He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor .
2	The original iron entered nigh the tail , and , like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man , travelled full forty feet , and at last was found imbedded in the hump .
2	No man prefers to sleep two in a bed .
0	They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they can see a whale , for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains .
0	-- TALES OF A WHALE VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN .
2	" Depend upon it , landlord , that harpooneer is a dangerous man ."
2	Yet this is nothing : I leave eternity to Thee ; for what is man that he should live out the lifetime of his God ?"
0	" The whale fell directly over him , and probably killed him in a moment ."
0	Some say the whale can ' t open his mouth , but that is a fable .
2	When the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height , this man slipped away unobserved , and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the sea .
2	" He says he ' s our man , Bildad ," said Peleg , " he wants to ship ."
0	--" NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF NANTUCKET , WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A LARGE SPERM WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN ."
0	The whale is doubtless the largest animal in creation ."
1	Though completely swamped , the boat was nearly unharmed .
1	" Watching the boat till it was fairly beached , and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa - nut trees , Steelkilt made sail again , and in due time arrived at Tahiti , his own place of destination .
0	I was told of a whale taken near Shetland , that had above a barrel of herrings in his belly .
2	So he makes the best of it ; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is advertised , they let him pass , and he descends into the cabin .
1	The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins .
0	Therefore you must not , in every case at least , take the higgledy - piggledy whale statements , however authentic , in these extracts , for veritable gospel cetology .
0	" I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a Gothic Arch , by setting up a whale ' s jaw bones ."
0	Oft have we known that seven - fold fence to fail , Tho ' stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale ."
0	" Oh , the rare old Whale , mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be A giant in might , where might is right , And King of the boundless sea ."
1	But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat ' s crew being assigned to that boat .
0	" These things are reciprocal ; the ball rebounds , only to bound forward again ; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale , the whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North - West Passage ."
2	What ' s all this fuss I have been making about , thought I to myself -- the man ' s a human being just as I am : he has just as much reason to fear me , as I have to be afraid of him .
1	" Born in a ferry - boat !
2	Let the most absent - minded of men be plunged in his deepest reveries -- stand that man on his legs , set his feet a - going , and he will infallibly lead you to water , if water there be in all that region .
2	I have seldom seen such brawn in a man .
1	Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword - mat , for an additional lashing to our boat .
0	" This whale ' s liver was two cartloads ."
0	" Spain -- a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe ."
2	Nevertheless , a man like Queequeg you don ' t see every day , he and his ways were well worth unusual regarding .
1	He clutched it in an instant , seized the boat - knife , and impaling the letter on it , sent it thus loaded back into the ship .
0	" Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air , which , cracking like a whip , resounds to the distance of three or four miles ."
1	" Captain Mayhew , stand by now to receive it "; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck ' s hands , he caught it in the slit of the pole , and reached it over towards the boat .
0	"... and the breath of the whale is frequendy attended with such an insupportable smell , as to bring on a disorder of the brain ."
0	ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE - SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE .
2	But I don ' t fancy having a man smoking in bed with me .
1	Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from astern , while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge ; the sail collapsed and exploded ; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by ; something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us .
0	Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk ; the undeliverable , nameless perils of the whale ; these , with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds , helped to sway me to my wish .
2	ye insult me , man ; past all natural bearing , ye insult me .
1	I see thou art no Nantucketer -- ever been in a stove boat ?"
1	Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with the gunwale , Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft , and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea .
0	" The ribs and terrors in the whale , Arched over me a dismal gloom , While all God ' s sun - lit waves rolled by , And lift me deepening down to doom .
2	A boggy , soggy , squitchy picture truly , enough to drive a nervous man distracted .
2	" Why , blast your eyes , Bildad ," cried Peleg , " thou dost not want to swindle this young man !
2	" Look ye now , young man , thy lungs are a sort of soft , d ' ye see ; thou dost not talk shark a bit .
0	-- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .
0	They are mostly young , of stalwart frames ; fellows who have felled forests , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale - lance .
2	" He say ," said I , " that you came near kill - e that man there ," pointing to the still shivering greenhorn .
2	He ' s a queer man , Captain Ahab -- so some think -- but a good one .
1	Boat and crew sat motionless on the sea .
2	Man and wife , they say , there open the very bottom of their souls to each other ; and some old couples often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning .
2	Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ?
1	And all the while the thick - lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep , leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake , and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle - wheels of an ocean steamer .
2	--' Soon enough for any honest man that goes a passenger .'
2	" Get along with ye ," said she to the man , " or I ' ll be combing ye !"
1	The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat .
0	OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE .
1	As soon as Steelkilt leaves me , I swear to beach this boat on yonder island , and remain there six days .
0	in the ship called The Jonas - in - the - Whale .
2	Yes , for replenished with the meat and wine of the word , to the faithful man of God , this pulpit , I see , is a self - containing stronghold -- a lofty Ehrenbreitstein , with a perennial well of water within the walls .
0	" The Whale - ship Globe , on board of which vessel occurred the horrid transactions we are about to relate , belonged to the island of Nantucket ."
2	And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one .
0	They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the whale , in order to avoid being seen by us ."
2	So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself out for a philosopher , I conclude that , like the dyspeptic old woman , he must have " broken his digester ."
1	cried Stubb ; " if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat , unless maybe to stop the plug - hole with my timber toe .
1	But Ahab said nothing ; turning his boat , he sailed back to the vessel ; the rest as silently following .
2	So , if any one man , in his own proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybody , let him not be backward , but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in that way .
1	But as he did so , the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing ; the boat drifted a little towards the ship ' s stern ; so that , as if by magic , the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel ' s eager hand .
2	And what is the will of God ?-- to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- THAT is the will of God .
1	Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on .
1	With that he leaped from the canoe , swam to the boat ; and climbing the gunwale , stood face to face with the captain .
1	The schooner was run into the wind , and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat , Queequeg , stripped to the waist , darted from the side with a long living arc of a leap .
2	Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed ; as if darkness were indeed the proper element of our essences , though light be more congenial to our clayey part .
1	They had just landed from their boat , and this was the first house they entered .
1	A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat ; it was the darted iron of Queequeg .
1	and with that , Peleg hurried him over the side , and both dropt into the boat .
0	" The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet ."
2	Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent .
2	Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."
1	There was a considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship , and down between this was the sea .
0	" Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received nothing certain .
1	Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist ; neither ship nor boat to be seen .
0	Then , in that contracted hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship ' s water - line , Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour , when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels ' wards .
1	Nevertheless , as the second iron is already connected with the line , and the line is running , hence that weapon must , at all events , be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat , somehow and somewhere ; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands .
0	I answered , " we have been stove by a whale ."
2	And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him , be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for .
1	There was young Nat Swaine , once the bravest boat - header out of all Nantucket and the Vineyard ; he joined the meeting , and never came to good .
0	-- CHARLES LAMB ' S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE .
0	" The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean , in order , if possible , to discover a passage through it to India , though they failed of their main object , laid - open the haunts of the whale ."
1	For , of course , each boat is supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually darted without recovery .
2	" Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man .
1	The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat .
0	" In black distress , I called my God , When I could scarce believe him mine , He bowed his ear to my complaints -- No more the whale did me confine .
2	It ' s only his outside ; a man can be honest in any sort of skin .
0	-- JOHN HUNTER ' S ACCOUNT OF THE DISSECTION OF A WHALE .
0	... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over ."
1	Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship , during a black night an open boat , when almost despairing of reaching any hospitable shore .
2	Queequeg , look here -- you sabbee me , I sabbee -- you this man sleepe you -- you sabbee ?"
1	The phantoms , for so they then seemed , were flitting on the other side of the deck , and , with a noiseless celerity , were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung there .
2	You , young man , avast there !"
0	No wonder , then , that they made a straight wake for the whale ' s mouth -- the bar -- when the wrinkled little old Jonah , there officiating , soon poured them out brimmers all round .
2	This man interested me at once ; and since the sea - gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate ( though but a sleeping - partner one , so far as this narrative is concerned ), I will here venture upon a little description of him .
0	" She came to bespeak a monument for her first love , who had been killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean , no less than forty years ago ."
1	Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .
0	" So be cheery , my lads , let your hearts never fail , While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale !"
1	He is thus completely wedged before and behind , and can only expand himself sideways by settling down on his stretched legs ; but a sudden , violent pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him , because length of foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth .
1	cried Captain Mayhew ; " thou must either --" But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead , and its seethings drowned all speech .
0	" So fire with water to compare , The ocean serves on high , Up - spouted by a whale in air , To express unwieldy joy ."
0	" Several whales have come in upon this coast ( Fife ) Anno 1652 , one eighty feet in length of the whale - bone kind came in , which ( as I was informed ), besides a vast quantity of oil , did afford 500 weight of baleen .
1	And therefore three cheers for Nantucket ; and come a stove boat and stove body when they will , for stave my soul , Jove himself cannot .
2	To be sure , it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning ; but I never heard of a hot sun ' s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one .
2	He ' s a grand , ungodly , god - like man , Captain Ahab ; doesn ' t speak much ; but , when he does speak , then you may well listen .
0	Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark - looking den -- the bar -- a rude attempt at a right whale ' s head .
0	-- NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING OF THE WHALE - SHIP HOBOMACK .
1	" I tell thee again , Gabriel , that --" But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends .
2	Any how , young man , he won ' t always see me , so I don ' t suppose he will thee .
